INSTALL.md, before:

# Xyce Configure, Build and Installation Guide Using CMake

This guide describes the basic process for compiling and installing a Xyce
binary using the CMake build system. It is easiest to view these instructions
with full formatting on the [Xyce GitHub website](https://github.com/Xyce/Xyce/blob/master/INSTALL.md).
(For instructions on building Xyce with the autotools system, see the
[Xyce Building Guide](https://xyce.sandia.gov/documentation/BuildingGuide.html).)

If you do not want to build from source, binary installers for Windows, Mac and
Red Hat Linux are made available for every release of Xyce on the
[Xyce website](https://xyce.sandia.gov).

Xyce can be built in two variants: serial or with MPI parallelism. The variant
is determined by whether Trilinos is built in serial or with MPI. While the
parallel and serial variants can co-exist on a system, they must be installed
in different directories (for both Trilinos and Xyce).

If you have not yet done so, clone the [Xyce
repository](https://github.com/Xyce/Xyce) from GitHub, or download one of the
release tarballs either from GitHub or the [Xyce website](https://xyce.sandia.gov).

The main challenge in building Xyce involves properly obtaining and/or building
the third-party libraries (TPLs), particularly
[Trilinos](https://trilinos.github.io/).  We are in the process of developing a
CMake "superbuild" capability that can automatically download and build many of
the TPLs. The [Using the Superbuild](#using-the-superbuild) section covers that
approach. The [Standard Build Approach](#standard-build-approach) section
covers the more traditional method. For either method, a certain minimal set of
dependencies are required, which is covered first.

If many flags are being given to CMake on the command line (for Trilinos or
Xyce), you might want to create a configuration script. See the [Configuration
Scripts](#configuration-scripts) section for more detail.

Some systems require modifications to the following instructions. These are
covered in the [System-Specific Modifications](#system-specific-modifications)
section for the following systems:
- [Windows](#windows)
- [Cygwin](#cygwin)
- [Ubuntu](#ubuntu) (17.10, 18.x and 19.x)
- [MacOS](#macos)

## Obtaining the Dependencies

Most of the software needed to build Xyce is available via package management
systems. (See the Modifications section for [MacOS](#macos) and
[Windows](#windows) systems.)

You will need to obtain the following tools:
- C/C++ compiler suite - C++11-compatible (e.g., gcc 4.9 or later, Clang 3.3 or
  later)\
  (These might be in separate packages on your system.)
- Fortran compiler (e.g., gfortran)
  + some packages will include Fortran with the C and C++ compilers \
  + Trilinos has Fortran code; but leveraging it is technically
    [optional](https://docs.trilinos.org/files/TrilinosBuildReference.html#id43).
    Not using the Fortran code, though, may result in slightly worse performance.
  + Xyce, itself, does not require Fortran
- Build system (e.g., [make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/),
  [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org/), [Jom](https://wiki.qt.io/Jom))
- [CMake](https://cmake.org) (3.13 or later)
- [Bison](https://www.gnu.org/software/bison) (3.0.4 or later)
- [flex](https://github.com/westes/flex) (2.5.34 or later)

You will also need the following libraries:
- [BLAS](http://www.netlib.org/blas)
- [LAPACK](http://www.netlib.org/lapack)

On some systems, some of the tools and/or libraries also have "developer"
library packages that will need to be installed in addition to the primary
packages.

## Using the Superbuild

While easy, this approach has not been thoroughly tested, so should be
considered a "beta" capability. Also, it currently installs everything into an
"install" directory in the build directory, which may not be ideal for most
users. Therefore, we encourage people to use the [standard build
approach](#standard-build-approach), which involves only a few more steps.

Assuming the dependencies have been installed, CMake will automatically build
the following components:
- ADMS
- FFTW (or uses MKL?)
- SuiteSparse
- Trilinos

Then CMake will compile a serial build of Xyce that enables the (optional)
[Xyce/ADMS](https://xyce.sandia.gov/documentation/XyceADMSGuide.html) model
plugin capability. Note that, since CMake is building several packages, the
process could take a long time.

To perform a superbuild, follow this procedure:
- Create a "build" directory somewhere on your system (the location and
  directory name are not important)
- From the build directory, run the following command:
  ```sh
  cmake -D Xyce_USE_SUPERBUILD=ON <path/to/Xyce>
  ```
- Then run
  ```sh
  cmake --build . -j 2
  ```
  The "-j 2" designates the number of processors being used for compiling.
  Choose an appropriate number for your system.

## Standard Build Approach

The standard build approach requires all the third-party software to be in
place prior to invoking CMake to configure Xyce. Be sure you have followed the
instructions in the [Obtaining the Dependencies](#obtaining-the-dependencies)
section, above. Then proceed through the following tasks, which are broken into
three steps:
- Obtaining the TPLs (except Trilinos)
- Building Trilinos
- Building Xyce

### Obtaining the TPLs

The minimal third-party libraries needed for Xyce are:
- [SuiteSparse](http://faculty.cse.tamu.edu/davis/suitesparse.html) (2.1.1 or later)
- [FFTW](http://www.fftw.org) (3.x)

For parallel builds you will also need [Open MPI](http://www.open-mpi.org)
([MPICH](https://www.mpich.org/) should also work, but the Xyce team does not
regularly build with that library).

The above are available in most package managers. Again, on some systems, the
libraries might have "developer" packages that will need to be installed in
addition to the primary packages. Anything not available via a package manager
will need to be built from source.

### Building Trilinos

While [Trilinos](https://trilinos.github.io/) is available in some package
managers, the particular build may not have all the features required by Xyce.
If Trilinos is available, you can try skipping to the Xyce section to see if
Xyce configures and builds. If not, continue with these instructions.

The following process will provide a serial Trilinos installation that will
contain only the libraries needed by Xyce. For the parallel version, be sure to
understand the serial build process prior to reading the [Building Trilinos
with MPI Parallelism](#building-trilinos-with-mpi-parallelism) section, below.

First, download Trilinos version 12.12.1 from the [Trilinos GitHub
Page](https://github.com/trilinos/trilinos), or use this [direct
link](https://github.com/trilinos/Trilinos/archive/refs/tags/trilinos-release-12-12-1.tar.gz).
You can also use git to clone just the 12.12.1 release using:
```sh
git clone --depth 1 --branch trilinos-release-12-12-1 https://github.com/trilinos/Trilinos.git
```
Be sure to compile version 12.12.1. Other versions will not work with this
process, as they require slightly different build options.

An "initial cache" file is included in the Xyce repository with a typical set
of settings for a Xyce-oriented serial Trilinos build. The file,
`trilinos-config.cmake` is located in the Xyce `cmake/trilinos` directory.

Prior to building Trilinos, create a "build" directory in a convenient
location. (The name does not matter, and can be something simple like
`trilinos_build`.) On Unix-like systems, the default Trilinos installation
location is `/usr/local`. This can be changed by adding the following flag to
the CMake invocation.
```sh
-D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=</path/to/install>
```
As with Xyce, both a parallel and serial build of Trilinos can exist on the
same system, but they must be in different directories. (We recommend
specifying unique sub-directories in `/usr/local`, such as
`/usr/local/trilinos_serial`.) If you install Trilinos in a temporary location,
you will need to rebuild when building a new version of Xyce. (The recommended
version of Trilinos has historically not changed often.)

If you have compilers or libraries in non-standard locations, see the [Other
Trilinos Options](#other-trilinos-options) section, below.

To build Trilinos (and install it in the default location, `/usr/local`), enter
the build directory and run:
```sh
cmake -C path/to/Xyce/cmake/trilinos/trilinos-config.cmake <path/to/Trilinos>
```
Once the configuration step has completed, run the following in the build
directory:
```sh
cmake --build . -j 2 -t install
```
The "-j 2" designates the number of processors being used for compiling
Trilinos. Choose an appropriate number for your system. After the Xyce
installation is successful, you may delete the Trilinos build directory if you
do not plan on building Trilinos again (see the [Uninstalling
Xyce](#uninstalling-xyce) section below first, however).

#### Other Trilinos Options

The following are various flags that might be needed when building Trilinos.
These can be added to the command line, or put in a [configuration
script](#configuration-scripts).

CMake will use the first compiler set it finds on your system. Alternatively,
you can specify the compilers by adding the following flags to the CMake
invocation:
```sh
-D CMAKE_C_COMPILER=<C-compiler> \
-D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<C++-compiler> \
-D CMAKE_Fortran_COMPILER=<Fortran-compiler> \
```
You may need to use a full path, if they are not in your `$PATH`.

Similarly, if the third-party libraries (AMD, BLAS and LAPACK) are not in your
`$PATH`, use the following flags to help CMake find the libraries:
```sh
-D AMD_LIBRARY_DIRS=</path/to/AMD/lib> \
-D AMD_INCLUDE_DIRS=</path/to/AMD/include> \
-D BLAS_LIBRARY_DIRS=</path/to/BLAS/lib> \
-D LAPACK_LIBRARY_DIRS=</path/to/LAPACK/lib> \
```
See the [Trilinos Build
Reference](https://docs.trilinos.org/files/TrilinosBuildReference.html) for
more details on the Trilinos build options.

#### Building Trilinos with MPI Parallelism

To enable MPI parallelism in Xyce, Trilinos must be built with MPI enabled. A
second "initial cache" file, called `trilinos-config-MPI.cmake`, is provided
for MPI builds. In addition to using the alternate cache file, the MPI
compilers must be explicitly specified to CMake. The following CMake invocation
should work on most systems:
```sh
cmake \
-C path/to/Xyce/cmake/trilinos/trilinos-config-MPI.cmake \
-D CMAKE_C_COMPILER=mpicc \
-D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=mpicxx \
-D CMAKE_Fortran_COMPILER=mpifort \
<path/to/Trilinos>
```
Note that the exact compiler names may be different on your system. Also, the
above invocation will install Trilinos in `/usr/local`.

As with the serial build, once the configuration step is done, run the
following in the build directory to compile and install Trilinos:
```sh
cmake --build . -j 2 -t install
```

### Building Xyce

Once Trilinos is built, you can build and install Xyce. By default, Xyce will
be installed in the `/usr/local/` directory. To specify a different
installation location, add the following flag to the CMake invocation:
```sh
-D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=</path/to/install>
```
Again, if you plan to have both a parallel and serial build of Xyce on your
system, they must be in different directories. (We recommend specifying unique
sub-directories in `/usr/local`, such as `/usr/local/xyce_serial`.)

If Trilinos is not located in your path, add the following flag to the CMake
invocation:
```sh
-D Trilinos_ROOT=</path/to/Trilinos_install>
```
Create a build directory for Xyce (such as `xyce_build`) and go into that
directory. Then run CMake using:
```sh
cmake path/to/Xyce
```
Then, to build and install Xyce, run:
```sh
cmake --build . -j 2 -t install
```
The "-j 2" designates the number of processors being used for compiling Xyce.
Choose an appropriate number for your system.

#### Adding the Xyce/ADMS capability

To enable the ability to compile Verilog-A models using the "Xyce/ADMS"
compiler tool, [ADMS](https://github.com/Qucs/ADMS) must be installed prior to
building Xyce. Then, to enable the capability in the Xyce build, add the
following flag to the Xyce CMake invocation:
```sh
-D Xyce_PLUGIN_SUPPORT=ON
```
See the [Xyce/ADMS Users
Guide](https://xyce.sandia.gov/documentation/XyceADMSGuide.html) for more
information on running Xyce/ADMS. (At the moment, the CMake support for the
plugin capability should be considered beta.)

## Uninstalling Xyce

The Xyce CMake does not create an uninstall script. However, on installation it
does produce an "install manifest" file, which lists the path to every
installed file. To remove a Xyce installation from a Unix-like system, simply
run:
```sh
xargs rm < install_manifest.txt
```
You may also want to uninstall Trilinos. As with Xyce, an
`install_manifest.txt` file is produced when Trilinos is installed.

If you do not want to keep the build directories, simply copy the
`install_manifest.txt` file(s) to a safe location (the file name can be
changed). Then Xyce and/or Trilinos can be uninstalled at any time using the
`xarg` command, above (be sure to specify the correct filename). Note that the
uninstall method is immediate and permanent.

## Running the Test Suite

If you wish to test the Xyce installation, run the
[Xyce Regression Suite](https://github.com/Xyce/Xyce_Regression). See the
[Running the Xyce Regression Suite](https://xyce.sandia.gov/documentation/RunningTheTests.html)
documentation on the Xyce home page.

## Configuration Scripts

If many flags are being applied as part of a CMake invocation, you might want
to create a configuration script. This is essentially a shell script with the
CMake invocation. For example, to configure an MPI-enabled Trilinos build one
might create a file containing:
```sh
#!/bin/sh

cmake \
-C path/to/Xyce/cmake/trilinos/trilinos-config.cmake \
-D CMAKE_C_COMPILER=mpicc \
-D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=mpicxx \
-D CMAKE_Fortran_COMPILER=mpifort \
-D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/install/Trilinos/mpi/ \
<path/to/Trilinos>
```
More options can be added as needed. The file can be made executable by running
the following on the command line:
```sh
chmod a+x <filename>
```
Running the configuration script in the build directory is the same as running
the CMake configure line directly.

## System-Specific Modifications

The instructions above are applicable to most operating systems. Modifications
for specific systems are added below as we become aware of them.

### Windows

Compiling Xyce on Windows is not a small task at the moment, since Windows does
not have a package manager equivalent. Internally, we use the Intel compiler
suite with the Intel [Math Kernel
Library](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi/components/onemkl.html)
(MKL), which provides the BLAS, LAPACK and FFT capabilities (removing the need
for FFTW). At the beginning of 2021, Intel rebranded their tool chains as the
[oneAPI](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi.html)
Toolkits, and now make them available for free.

We have not yet tried using oneAPI, so we cannot yet give advice on how to use
it. One should be able to use the [oneAPI Base
Toolkit](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi/base-toolkit.html),
which supplies C, C++ and Fortran compilers, along with the MKL. Installing the
standalone [Microsoft C++ Build
Tools](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/visual-cpp-build-tools/) first (as
required by oneAPI) should provide the needed system libraries. The Microsoft
Build Tools will also supply CMake and the NMAKE build tool. If you decide to
try compiling with oneAPI, we welcome feedback on your experience.

On Windows, Bison and flex are available via the
[WinFlexBison](https://github.com/lexxmark/winflexbison) package, leaving
SuiteSparse as the remaining (non-Trilinos) requirement.

The only part of SuiteSparse needed by Xyce is
[AMD](https://github.com/DrTimothyAldenDavis/SuiteSparse/tree/master/AMD). The
SuiteSparse build system is built around Makefiles, which should work fine with
NMAKE. As an alternative, however, we have provided a "CMakeLists.txt" file in
the `Xyce/cmake/trilinos/AMD/` directory, which will compile and install _only_
the AMD library. Instructions on how to use it are in a comment block at the
top of the file.

The Xyce regression suite must be run in a Unix-like environment with Perl. To
use it, you will need to install Cygwin. It is likely possible to use the
Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), instead, but we have no experience with it.

### Cygwin

First, Cygwin installs a minimal set of packages by default, so all of the
dependencies will have to be explicitly added, including the AMD library (which
is part of SuiteSparse). As of this writing the required packages are:
- git (optional)
- gcc-core
- gcc-g++
- gcc-fortran
- make (or ninja)
- cmake
- bison
- flex
- liblapack0, liblapack-devel
- libsuitesparseconfig-devel, libamd-devel
- fftw, libfftw3-devel

Cygwin also needs additional flags to be applied when compiling Trilinos and
Xyce. For Trilinos, add the following to the CMake invocation:
```sh
-D CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS="-D_BSD_SOURCE -D_GNU_SOURCE" \
-D CMAKE_C_FLAGS="-D_BSD_SOURCE -D_GNU_SOURCE" \
-D AMD_INCLUDE_DIRS="/usr/include/suitesparse" \
```
For Xyce, add the following to the CMake invocation:
```sh
-D CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS="-D_BSD_SOURCE -D_GNU_SOURCE" \
-D CMAKE_C_FLAGS="-D_BSD_SOURCE -D_GNU_SOURCE" \
```

### Ubuntu

Ubuntu releases 17.10 through the 19.x (including 18.04), have a broken version
of Open MPI in their package repositories. The broken Open MPI was fixed in
Ubuntu 20.04.

On the problem releases, the packaged version of Open MPI in the package
repositories is compiled with the `--enable-heterogeneous` option, which breaks
MPI's standard compliance and causes Xyce to fail on some problems.

If you are running a version of Ubuntu that has this issue, the only workaround
is to uninstall the OpenMPI package and build OpenMPI from source yourself,
without the `--enable-heterogeneous` option. Comment 11 of the [Launchpad bug
report](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openmpi/+bug/1731938/comments/11)
contains instructions for how to rebuild and install Open MPI using the Debian
package building system.

You can determine whether your system's install of OpenMPI has this issue by
running a small test program that exists in the Xyce source tree. To test your
OpenMPI package prior to building Trilinos, copy the file
`Xyce/src/test/MPITest/testBUG967.c` into a temporary directory; then compile
and run it using the following commands:
```sh
mpicc -o testBUG967 testBUG967.c
mpirun -np 2 ./testBUG967
```
If the run produces any output with the word __BAD__, your OpenMPI install is
broken and cannot be used. You must instead use the workaround described above.

### MacOS

MacOS does not have a native package manager, but there are several third-party
package managers available. We have had success with
[MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/) and [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/).

Using the BLAS and LAPACK provided by the Xcode Accelerate framework should
give slightly better performance than the BLAS and LAPACK libraries provided by
the package managers. If specifying the Accelerate framework, it is prudent to
specify the XCode Clang compilers as well. To use it, add the following to the
Trilinos CMake invocation:
```sh
-D CMAKE_C_COMPILER=clang \
-D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=clang++ \
-D BLAS_LIBRARY_NAMES="-Wl,-framework,Accelerate" \
-D LAPACK_LIBRARY_NAMES="-Wl,-framework,Accelerate" \
```

Commit message:

Update CMake Windows and AMD install instructions
I took the AMD build instructions out of the Windows-specific area and
put them into a subsection of the TPL build instructions. I also
modified the CmakeLists.txt file for building the AMD library, itself.
It is now virtually identical to the process used in the superbuild (the
two could probably be merged some time in the future).

Finally, I made a small tweak to the Cygwin build instructions.

https://gitlab-ex.sandia.gov/Xyce/Xyce/-/issues/1

INSTALL.md, after:

# Xyce Configure, Build and Installation Guide Using CMake

This guide describes the basic process for compiling and installing a Xyce
binary using the CMake build system. It is easiest to view these instructions
with full formatting on the [Xyce GitHub website](https://github.com/Xyce/Xyce/blob/master/INSTALL.md).
(For instructions on building Xyce with the autotools system, see the
[Xyce Building Guide](https://xyce.sandia.gov/documentation/BuildingGuide.html).)

If you do not want to build from source, binary installers for Windows, Mac and
Red Hat Linux are made available for every release of Xyce on the
[Xyce website](https://xyce.sandia.gov).

Xyce can be built in two variants: serial or with MPI parallelism. The variant
is determined by whether Trilinos is built in serial or with MPI. While the
parallel and serial variants can co-exist on a system, they must be installed
in different directories (for both Trilinos and Xyce).

If you have not yet done so, clone the [Xyce
repository](https://github.com/Xyce/Xyce) from GitHub, or download one of the
release tarballs either from GitHub or the [Xyce website](https://xyce.sandia.gov).

The main challenge in building Xyce involves properly obtaining and/or building
the third-party libraries (TPLs), particularly
[Trilinos](https://trilinos.github.io/).  We are in the process of developing a
CMake "superbuild" capability that can automatically download and build many of
the TPLs. The [Using the Superbuild](#using-the-superbuild) section covers that
approach. The [Standard Build Approach](#standard-build-approach) section
covers the more traditional method. For either method, a certain minimal set of
dependencies are required, which is covered first.

If many flags are being given to CMake on the command line (for Trilinos or
Xyce), you might want to create a configuration script. See the [Configuration
Scripts](#configuration-scripts) section for more detail.

Some systems require modifications to the following instructions. These are
covered in the [System-Specific Modifications](#system-specific-modifications)
section for the following systems:
- [Windows](#windows)
- [Cygwin](#cygwin)
- [Ubuntu](#ubuntu) (17.10, 18.x and 19.x)
- [MacOS](#macos)

## Obtaining the Dependencies

Most of the software needed to build Xyce is available via package management
systems. (See the Modifications section for [MacOS](#macos) and
[Windows](#windows) systems.)

You will need to obtain the following tools:
- C/C++ compiler suite - C++11-compatible (e.g., gcc 4.9 or later, Clang 3.3 or
  later)\
  (These might be in separate packages on your system.)
- Fortran compiler (e.g., gfortran)
  + some packages will include Fortran with the C and C++ compilers \
  + Trilinos has Fortran code; but leveraging it is technically
    [optional](https://docs.trilinos.org/files/TrilinosBuildReference.html#id43).
    Not using the Fortran code, though, may result in slightly worse performance.
  + Xyce, itself, does not require Fortran
- Build system (e.g., [make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/),
  [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org/), [Jom](https://wiki.qt.io/Jom))
- [CMake](https://cmake.org) (3.13 or later)
- [Bison](https://www.gnu.org/software/bison) (3.0.4 or later)
- [flex](https://github.com/westes/flex) (2.5.34 or later)

You will also need the following libraries:
- [BLAS](http://www.netlib.org/blas)
- [LAPACK](http://www.netlib.org/lapack)

On some systems, some of the tools and/or libraries also have "developer"
library packages that will need to be installed in addition to the primary
packages.

## Using the Superbuild

While easy, this approach has not been thoroughly tested, so should be
considered a "beta" capability. Also, it currently installs everything into an
"install" directory in the build directory, which may not be ideal for most
users. Therefore, we encourage people to use the [standard build
approach](#standard-build-approach), which involves only a few more steps.

Assuming the dependencies have been installed, CMake will automatically build
the following components:
- ADMS
- FFTW (or uses MKL?)
- SuiteSparse
- Trilinos

Then CMake will compile a serial build of Xyce that enables the (optional)
[Xyce/ADMS](https://xyce.sandia.gov/documentation/XyceADMSGuide.html) model
plugin capability. Note that, since CMake is building several packages, the
process could take a long time.

To perform a superbuild, follow this procedure:
- Create a "build" directory somewhere on your system (the location and
  directory name are not important)
- From the build directory, run the following command:
  ```sh
  cmake -D Xyce_USE_SUPERBUILD=ON <path/to/Xyce>
  ```
- Then run
  ```sh
  cmake --build . -j 2
  ```
  The "-j 2" designates the number of processors being used for compiling.
  Choose an appropriate number for your system.

## Standard Build Approach

The standard build approach requires all the third-party software to be in
place prior to invoking CMake to configure Xyce. Be sure you have followed the
instructions in the [Obtaining the Dependencies](#obtaining-the-dependencies)
section, above. Then proceed through the following tasks, which are broken into
three steps:
- Obtaining the TPLs (except Trilinos)
- Building Trilinos
- Building Xyce

### Obtaining the TPLs

The minimal third-party libraries needed for Xyce are:
- [SuiteSparse](http://faculty.cse.tamu.edu/davis/suitesparse.html) (2.1.1 or later)
- [FFTW](http://www.fftw.org) (3.x)

For parallel builds you will also need [Open MPI](http://www.open-mpi.org)
([MPICH](https://www.mpich.org/) should also work, but the Xyce team does not
regularly build with that library).

The above are available in most package managers. Again, on some systems, the
libraries might have "developer" packages that will need to be installed in
addition to the primary packages. Anything not available via a package manager
will need to be built from source.

#### Building SuiteSparse

Building SuiteSparse is not difficult. However, the only part of SuiteSparse
used by Xyce is AMD. As an alternative building process, we have provided a
"CMakeLists.txt" file in the `Xyce/cmake/trilinos/AMD/` directory. Using CMake,
the file will allow you to compile and install _only_ the AMD library. See the
comment block at the top of the file for instructions on its use.

### Building Trilinos

While [Trilinos](https://trilinos.github.io/) is available in some package
managers, the particular build may not have all the features required by Xyce.
If Trilinos is available, you can try skipping to the Xyce section to see if
Xyce configures and builds. If not, continue with these instructions.

The following process will provide a serial Trilinos installation that will
contain only the libraries needed by Xyce. For the parallel version, be sure to
understand the serial build process prior to reading the [Building Trilinos
with MPI Parallelism](#building-trilinos-with-mpi-parallelism) section, below.

First, download Trilinos version 12.12.1 from the [Trilinos GitHub
Page](https://github.com/trilinos/trilinos), or use this [direct
link](https://github.com/trilinos/Trilinos/archive/refs/tags/trilinos-release-12-12-1.tar.gz).
You can also use git to clone just the 12.12.1 release using:
```sh
git clone --depth 1 --branch trilinos-release-12-12-1 https://github.com/trilinos/Trilinos.git
```
Be sure to compile version 12.12.1. Other versions will not work with this
process, as they require slightly different build options.

An "initial cache" file is included in the Xyce repository with a typical set
of settings for a Xyce-oriented serial Trilinos build. The file,
`trilinos-config.cmake` is located in the Xyce `cmake/trilinos` directory.

Prior to building Trilinos, create a "build" directory in a convenient
location. (The name does not matter, and can be something simple like
`trilinos_build`.) On Unix-like systems, the default Trilinos installation
location is `/usr/local`. This can be changed by adding the following flag to
the CMake invocation.
```sh
-D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=</path/to/install>
```
As with Xyce, both a parallel and serial build of Trilinos can exist on the
same system, but they must be in different directories. (We recommend
specifying unique sub-directories in `/usr/local`, such as
`/usr/local/trilinos_serial`.) If you install Trilinos in a temporary location,
you will need to rebuild when building a new version of Xyce. (The recommended
version of Trilinos has historically not changed often.)

If you have compilers or libraries in non-standard locations, see the [Other
Trilinos Options](#other-trilinos-options) section, below.

To build Trilinos (and install it in the default location, `/usr/local`), enter
the build directory and run:
```sh
cmake -C path/to/Xyce/cmake/trilinos/trilinos-config.cmake <path/to/Trilinos>
```
Once the configuration step has completed, run the following in the build
directory:
```sh
cmake --build . -j 2 -t install
```
The "-j 2" designates the number of processors being used for compiling
Trilinos. Choose an appropriate number for your system. After the Xyce
installation is successful, you may delete the Trilinos build directory if you
do not plan on building Trilinos again (see the [Uninstalling
Xyce](#uninstalling-xyce) section below first, however).

#### Other Trilinos Options

The following are various flags that might be needed when building Trilinos.
These can be added to the command line, or put in a [configuration
script](#configuration-scripts).

CMake will use the first compiler set it finds on your system. Alternatively,
you can specify the compilers by adding the following flags to the CMake
invocation:
```sh
-D CMAKE_C_COMPILER=<C-compiler> \
-D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<C++-compiler> \
-D CMAKE_Fortran_COMPILER=<Fortran-compiler> \
```
You may need to use a full path, if they are not in your `$PATH`.

Similarly, if the third-party libraries (AMD, BLAS and LAPACK) are not in your
`$PATH`, use the following flags to help CMake find the libraries:
```sh
-D AMD_LIBRARY_DIRS=</path/to/AMD/lib> \
-D AMD_INCLUDE_DIRS=</path/to/AMD/include> \
-D BLAS_LIBRARY_DIRS=</path/to/BLAS/lib> \
-D LAPACK_LIBRARY_DIRS=</path/to/LAPACK/lib> \
```
See the [Trilinos Build
Reference](https://docs.trilinos.org/files/TrilinosBuildReference.html) for
more details on the Trilinos build options.

#### Building Trilinos with MPI Parallelism

To enable MPI parallelism in Xyce, Trilinos must be built with MPI enabled. A
second "initial cache" file, called `trilinos-config-MPI.cmake`, is provided
for MPI builds. In addition to using the alternate cache file, the MPI
compilers must be explicitly specified to CMake. The following CMake invocation
should work on most systems:
```sh
cmake \
-C path/to/Xyce/cmake/trilinos/trilinos-config-MPI.cmake \
-D CMAKE_C_COMPILER=mpicc \
-D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=mpicxx \
-D CMAKE_Fortran_COMPILER=mpifort \
<path/to/Trilinos>
```
Note that the exact compiler names may be different on your system. Also, the
above invocation will install Trilinos in `/usr/local`.

As with the serial build, once the configuration step is done, run the
following in the build directory to compile and install Trilinos:
```sh
cmake --build . -j 2 -t install
```

### Building Xyce

Once Trilinos is built, you can build and install Xyce. By default, Xyce will
be installed in the `/usr/local/` directory. To specify a different
installation location, add the following flag to the CMake invocation:
```sh
-D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=</path/to/install>
```
Again, if you plan to have both a parallel and serial build of Xyce on your
system, they must be in different directories. (We recommend specifying unique
sub-directories in `/usr/local`, such as `/usr/local/xyce_serial`.)

If Trilinos is not located in your path, add the following flag to the CMake
invocation:
```sh
-D Trilinos_ROOT=</path/to/Trilinos_install>
```
Create a build directory for Xyce (such as `xyce_build`) and go into that
directory. Then run CMake using:
```sh
cmake path/to/Xyce
```
Then, to build and install Xyce, run:
```sh
cmake --build . -j 2 -t install
```
The "-j 2" designates the number of processors being used for compiling Xyce.
Choose an appropriate number for your system.

#### Adding the Xyce/ADMS capability

To enable the ability to compile Verilog-A models using the "Xyce/ADMS"
compiler tool, [ADMS](https://github.com/Qucs/ADMS) must be installed prior to
building Xyce. Then, to enable the capability in the Xyce build, add the
following flag to the Xyce CMake invocation:
```sh
-D Xyce_PLUGIN_SUPPORT=ON
```
See the [Xyce/ADMS Users
Guide](https://xyce.sandia.gov/documentation/XyceADMSGuide.html) for more
information on running Xyce/ADMS. (At the moment, the CMake support for the
plugin capability should be considered beta.)

## Uninstalling Xyce

The Xyce CMake does not create an uninstall script. However, on installation it
does produce an "install manifest" file, which lists the path to every
installed file. To remove a Xyce installation from a Unix-like system, simply
run:
```sh
xargs rm < install_manifest.txt
```
You may also want to uninstall Trilinos. As with Xyce, an
`install_manifest.txt` file is produced when Trilinos is installed.

If you do not want to keep the build directories, simply copy the
`install_manifest.txt` file(s) to a safe location (the file name can be
changed). Then Xyce and/or Trilinos can be uninstalled at any time using the
`xarg` command, above (be sure to specify the correct filename). Note that the
uninstall method is immediate and permanent.

## Running the Test Suite

If you wish to test the Xyce installation, run the
[Xyce Regression Suite](https://github.com/Xyce/Xyce_Regression). See the
[Running the Xyce Regression Suite](https://xyce.sandia.gov/documentation/RunningTheTests.html)
documentation on the Xyce home page.

## Configuration Scripts

If many flags are being applied as part of a CMake invocation, you might want
to create a configuration script. This is essentially a shell script with the
CMake invocation. For example, to configure an MPI-enabled Trilinos build one
might create a file containing:
```sh
#!/bin/sh

cmake \
-C path/to/Xyce/cmake/trilinos/trilinos-config.cmake \
-D CMAKE_C_COMPILER=mpicc \
-D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=mpicxx \
-D CMAKE_Fortran_COMPILER=mpifort \
-D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/install/Trilinos/mpi/ \
<path/to/Trilinos>
```
More options can be added as needed. The file can be made executable by running
the following on the command line:
```sh
chmod a+x <filename>
```
Running the configuration script in the build directory is the same as running
the CMake configure line directly.

## System-Specific Modifications

The instructions above are applicable to most operating systems. Modifications
for specific systems are added below as we become aware of them.

### Windows

Compiling Xyce on Windows is not a small task at the moment, since Windows does
not have a package manager equivalent. Internally, we use the Intel compiler
suite with the Intel [Math Kernel
Library](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi/components/onemkl.html)
(MKL), which provides the BLAS, LAPACK and FFT capabilities (removing the need
for FFTW). At the beginning of 2021, Intel rebranded their tool chains as the
[oneAPI](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi.html)
Toolkits, and now make them available for free.

We have not yet tried using oneAPI, so we cannot yet give advice on how to use
it. One should be able to use the [oneAPI Base
Toolkit](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi/base-toolkit.html),
which supplies C, C++ and Fortran compilers, along with the MKL. Installing the
standalone [Microsoft C++ Build
Tools](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/visual-cpp-build-tools/) first (as
required by oneAPI) should provide the needed system libraries. The Microsoft
Build Tools will also supply CMake and the NMAKE build tool. If you decide to
try compiling with oneAPI, we welcome feedback on your experience.

On Windows, Bison and flex are available via the
[WinFlexBison](https://github.com/lexxmark/winflexbison) package, leaving
SuiteSparse as the remaining (non-Trilinos) requirement. For SuiteSparse, see
the [Building SuiteSparse](#building-suitesparse) section above, under
[Obtaining the TPLs](obtaining-the-tpls). Once all the TPLs are in place,
continue with the standard Trilinos and Xyce build processes.

The Xyce regression suite must be run in a Unix-like environment with Perl.
Therefore, to use it in Windows, you will need to install Cygwin. It is likely
possible to use the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), instead, but we have no
experience with it.

### Cygwin

First, Cygwin installs a minimal set of packages by default, so all of the
dependencies will have to be explicitly added, including the AMD library (which
is part of SuiteSparse). As of this writing the required packages are:
- git (optional)
- gcc-core
- gcc-g++
- gcc-fortran
- make (or ninja)
- cmake
- bison
- flex
- liblapack0, liblapack-devel
- libsuitesparseconfig-devel, libamd-devel
- fftw, libfftw3-devel

Cygwin also needs additional flags to be applied when compiling Trilinos and
Xyce. For Trilinos, add the following to the CMake invocation:
```sh
-D CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS="-D_BSD_SOURCE -D_GNU_SOURCE" \
-D CMAKE_C_FLAGS="-D_BSD_SOURCE -D_GNU_SOURCE" \
-D AMD_INCLUDE_DIRS="/usr/include/suitesparse" \
```
For Xyce, add the following to the CMake invocation:
```sh
-D CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS="-D_BSD_SOURCE -D_GNU_SOURCE" \
-D CMAKE_C_FLAGS="-D_BSD_SOURCE -D_GNU_SOURCE" \
```

### Ubuntu

Ubuntu releases 17.10 through the 19.x (including 18.04), have a broken version
of Open MPI in their package repositories. The broken Open MPI was fixed in
Ubuntu 20.04.

On the problem releases, the packaged version of Open MPI in the package
repositories is compiled with the `--enable-heterogeneous` option, which breaks
MPI's standard compliance and causes Xyce to fail on some problems.

If you are running a version of Ubuntu that has this issue, the only workaround
is to uninstall the OpenMPI package and build OpenMPI from source yourself,
without the `--enable-heterogeneous` option. Comment 11 of the [Launchpad bug
report](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openmpi/+bug/1731938/comments/11)
contains instructions for how to rebuild and install Open MPI using the Debian
package building system.

You can determine whether your system's install of OpenMPI has this issue by
running a small test program that exists in the Xyce source tree. To test your
OpenMPI package prior to building Trilinos, copy the file
`Xyce/src/test/MPITest/testBUG967.c` into a temporary directory; then compile
and run it using the following commands:
```sh
mpicc -o testBUG967 testBUG967.c
mpirun -np 2 ./testBUG967
```
If the run produces any output with the word __BAD__, your OpenMPI install is
broken and cannot be used. You must instead use the workaround described above.

### MacOS

MacOS does not have a native package manager, but there are several third-party
package managers available. We have had success with
[MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/) and [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/).

Using the BLAS and LAPACK provided by the Xcode Accelerate framework should
give slightly better performance than the BLAS and LAPACK libraries provided by
the package managers. If specifying the Accelerate framework, it is prudent to
specify the XCode Clang compilers as well. To use it, add the following to the
Trilinos CMake invocation:
```sh
-D CMAKE_C_COMPILER=clang \
-D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=clang++ \
-D TPL_BLAS_LIBRARIES="-Wl,-framework,Accelerate" \
-D TPL_LAPACK_LIBRARIES="-Wl,-framework,Accelerate" \
```
