LICENSE
=======

Copyright 2020-2024 National Technology & Engineering Solutions of
Sandia, LLC (NTESS).  Under the terms of Contract DE-NA0003525 with
NTESS, there is a non-exclusive license for use of this work by or on
behalf of the U.S. Government.  Export of this data may require a
license from the United States Government.

NOTICE:
For five (5) years from 6/17/2020, the United States Government is
granted for itself and others acting on its behalf a paid-up,
nonexclusive, irrevocable worldwide license in this data to reproduce,
prepare derivative works, and perform publicly and display publicly,
by or on behalf of the Government.  There is provision for the
possible extension of the term of this license.  Subsequent to that
period or any extension granted, the United States Government is
granted for itself and others acting on its behalf a paid-up,
nonexclusive, irrevocable worldwide license in this data to reproduce,
prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, perform
publicly and display publicly, and to permit others to do so.  The
specific term of the license can be identified by inquiry made to
National Technology and Engineering Solutions of Sandia, LLC or DOE.

NEITHER THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, NOR THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY, NOR NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING SOLUTIONS OF
SANDIA, LLC, NOR ANY OF THEIR EMPLOYEES, MAKES ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, OR ASSUMES ANY LEGAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ACCURACY,
COMPLETENESS, OR USEFULNESS OF ANY INFORMATION, APPARATUS, PRODUCT, OR
PROCESS DISCLOSED, OR REPRESENTS THAT ITS USE WOULD NOT INFRINGE
PRIVATELY OWNED RIGHTS.

Any licensee of "XyceNF" has the obligation and responsibility to abide
by the applicable export control laws, regulations, and general
prohibitions relating to the export of technical data.  Failure to
obtain an export control license or other authority from the
Government may result in criminal liability under U.S. laws.

